docs/index.md, before:

---
# https://vitepress.dev/reference/default-theme-home-page
layout: home

hero:
  name: "React Starter Kit"
  # text: "Production-ready monorepo for building fast web apps"
  tagline: Skip months of setup and ship your AI-powered SaaS fast. Authentication, database migrations, edge deployment, and cutting-edge React patterns all configured with industry best practices.
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Getting Started
      link: /getting-started
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/kriasoft/react-starter-kit

features:
  - icon: 🤖
    title: AI-First Development
    details: Code with AI from day one - LLM instructions, tool configurations, and project context pre-built for Claude Code, Cursor, and Gemini CLI
  - icon: 🚀
    title: Edge-First Architecture
    details: Built for Cloudflare Workers with optimized performance, global distribution, and instant deployment
  - icon: ⚛️
    title: Modern React Stack
    details: React 19, TanStack Router, Jotai state management, and ShadCN UI components with Tailwind CSS v4
  - icon: 🔐
    title: Complete Authentication
    details: Pre-configured Better Auth with social providers, session management, and secure user flows
  - icon: 🏢
    title: Multi-Tenant Database
    details: Cloudflare D1 / Neon with Drizzle ORM, pre-built multi-tenant schema, migrations, and type-safe queries
  - icon: ⚡
    title: Ship Faster
    details: Bun runtime for instant builds, hot reload, unified tooling, and comprehensive testing setup
---

Commit message:

feat: integrate Astro for marketing website

docs/index.md, after:

---
# https://vitepress.dev/reference/default-theme-home-page
layout: home

hero:
  name: "React Starter Kit"
  # text: "Production-ready monorepo for building fast web apps"
  tagline: Skip months of setup and ship your AI-powered SaaS fast. Authentication, database migrations, edge deployment, and cutting-edge React patterns all configured with industry best practices.
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Getting Started
      link: /getting-started
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/kriasoft/react-starter-kit

features:
  - icon: 🤖
    title: AI-First Development
    details: Code with AI from day one - LLM instructions, tool configurations, and project context pre-built for Claude Code, Cursor, and Gemini CLI
  - icon: 🚀
    title: Edge-First Architecture
    details: Built for Cloudflare Workers with optimized performance, global distribution, and instant deployment
  - icon: ⚛️
    title: Modern React Stack
    details: React 19 with Vite & Astro, TanStack Router, Jotai state management, and shadcn/ui components with Tailwind CSS v4
  - icon: 🔐
    title: Complete Authentication
    details: Pre-configured Better Auth with social providers, session management, and secure user flows
  - icon: 🏢
    title: Multi-Tenant Database
    details: Neon PostgreSQL with Drizzle ORM, pre-built multi-tenant schema with UUIDv7, migrations, and type-safe queries
  - icon: ⚡
    title: Ship Faster
    details: Bun runtime for instant builds, hot reload, unified tooling, and comprehensive testing setup
---
