docs/react-style-guide.md, before:

## React Style Guide

> This style guide comes as an addition to [Airbnb React/JSX Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/tree/master/react).
> Feel free to modify it to suit your project's needs. 

### Table of Contents

* [Separate folder per UI component](#separate-folder-per-ui-component)
* [Prefer using functional components](#prefer-using-functional-components)
* [Use CSS Modules](#use-css-modules)
* [Use higher-order components](#use-higher-order-components)

### Separate folder per UI component

* Place each major UI component along with its resources in a separate folder<br>
  This will make it easier to find related resources for any particular UI
  element (CSS, images, unit tests, localization files etc.). Removing such
  components during refactorings should also be easy.
* Avoid having CSS, images and other resource files shared between multiple components.<br>
  This will make your code more maintainable, easy to refactor.
* Add `package.json` file into each component's folder.<br>
  This will allow to easily reference such components from other places in
  your code.<br>
  `import Nav from '../Nav'` vs `import Nav from '../Nav/Nav.js'`

```
/components/Navigation/icon.svg
/components/Navigation/Navigation.css
/components/Navigation/Navigation.js
/components/Navigation/Navigation.test.js
/components/Navigation/Navigation.ru-RU.css
/components/Navigation/package.json
```

```
// components/Navigation/package.json 
{
  "name:": "Navigation",
  "main": "./Navigation.js"
}
```

For more information google for [component-based UI development](https://google.com/search?q=component-based+ui+development).

### Prefer using functional components

* Prefer using stateless functional components whenever possible.<br>
  Components that don't use state are better to be written as simple pure functions.

```jsx
// Bad
class Navigation extends Component {
  static propTypes = { items: PropTypes.array.isRequired };
  render() {
    return <nav><ul>{this.props.items.map(x => <li>{x.text}</li>)}</ul></nav>;
  }
}

// Better
function Navigation({ items }) {
  return (
    <nav><ul>{items.map(x => <li>{x.text}</li>)}</ul></nav>;
  );
}
Navigation.propTypes = { items: PropTypes.array.isRequired };
```

### Use CSS Modules

* Use CSS Modules<br>
  This will allow using short CSS class names and at the same time avoid conflicts.
* Keep CSS simple and declarative. Avoid loops, mixins etc.
* Feel free to use variables in CSS via [precss](https://github.com/jonathantneal/precss) plugin for [PostCSS](https://github.com/postcss/postcss)
* Prefer CSS class selectors instead of element and `id` selectors (see [BEM](https://bem.info/))
* Avoid nested CSS selectors (see [BEM](https://bem.info/))
* When in doubt, use `.root { }` class name for the root elements of your components

```scss
// Navigation.scss
@import '../variables.scss';

.root {
  width: 300px;
}

.items {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  list-style-type: none;
  text-align: center;
}

.item {
  display: inline-block;
  vertical-align: top;
}

.link {
  display: block;
  padding: 0 25px;
  outline: 0;
  border: 0;
  color: $default-color;
  text-decoration: none;
  line-height: 25px;
  transition: background-color .3s ease;

  &,
  .items:hover & {
    background: $default-bg-color;
  }

  .selected,
  .items:hover &:hover {
    background: $active-bg-color;
  }
}
```

```jsx
// Navigation.js
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';
import withStyles from 'isomorphic-style-loader/lib/withStyles';
import s from './Navigation.scss';

function Navigation() {
  return (
    <nav className={`${s.root} ${this.props.className}`}>
      <ul className={s.items}>
        <li className={`${s.item} ${s.selected}`}>
          <a className={s.link} href="/products">Products</a>
        </li>
        <li className={s.item}>
          <a className={s.link} href="/services">Services</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </nav>
  );
}

Navigation.propTypes = { className: PropTypes.string };

export default withStyles(Navigation, s);
```

### Use higher-order components

* Use higher-order components (HOC) to extend existing React components.<br>
  Here is an example:

```js
// withViewport.js
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { canUseDOM } from 'fbjs/lib/ExecutionEnvironment';

function withViewport(ComposedComponent) {
  return class WithViewport extends Component {

    state = {
      viewport: canUseDOM ?
        {width: window.innerWidth, height: window.innerHeight} :
        {width: 1366, height: 768} // Default size for server-side rendering
    };

    componentDidMount() {
      window.addEventListener('resize', this.handleResize);
      window.addEventListener('orientationchange', this.handleResize);
    }

    componentWillUnmount() {
      window.removeEventListener('resize', this.handleResize);
      window.removeEventListener('orientationchange', this.handleResize);
    }

    handleResize = () => {
      let viewport = {width: window.innerWidth, height: window.innerHeight};
      if (this.state.viewport.width !== viewport.width ||
        this.state.viewport.height !== viewport.height) {
        this.setState({ viewport });
      }
    };

    render() {
      return <ComposedComponent {...this.props} viewport={this.state.viewport}/>;
    }

  };
};

export default withViewport;
```

```js
// MyComponent.js
import React from 'react';
import withViewport from './withViewport';

class MyComponent {
  render() {
    let { width, height } = this.props.viewport;
    return <div>{`Viewport: ${width}x${height}`}</div>;
  }
}

export default withViewport(MyComponent);
```

**[⬆ back to top](#table-of-contents)**

Commit message:

[feature/redux] merge master (#733)
* Update npm modules; tweak Stylelint settings

* Change db string length (#691)

* Update history module to v3 (#692)

- Update `history` dependency to v3.0.0 ([changelog](https://github.com/ReactJSTraining/history/blob/master/CHANGES.md))
- Add `windowScrollX` and `windowScrollY` helpers to `core/DOMUtils`
- Rename `match()` to `UniversalRouter.resolve()`
- Fix scroll issues ([see article](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/09/history-api-scroll-restoration))

* fix(Isomorphic Style Loader): Add support to load multiple styles (#678)

* fix(Isomorphic Style Loader): Add support to load multiple styles

* fix(Isomorphic Style Loader): Add remove feature back

* Adds testing section (#687)

Integrates comments by @langpavel

* Fix npm warnings about graphql dependencies (#693)

fixes #661

* Fix OccurrenceOrderPlugin spelling (#683)

* fixed typo in passport.js (#696)

* Docs: use more expressive language (#701)

* Update stylelint-config-standard (#707)

* Update stylelint-config-standard

When I run 'npm run lint', this warning show up:

Deprecation Warning: 'number-zero-length-no-unit' has been deprecated, and will be removed in '7.0'. Use 'length-zero-no-unit' instead. See: http://stylelint.io/user-guide/rules/length-zero-no-unit/

update package to remove it.

* Update stylelint

to use length-zero-no-unit instead number-zero-length-no-unit.

* Fix spelling of "vice versa" (#710)

* Remove jade dependency

* Update react-style-guide.md (#718)

replace ../Nav with ../Navigation

* Update CHANGELOG.md

docs/react-style-guide.md, after:

## React Style Guide

> This style guide comes as an addition to [Airbnb React/JSX Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/tree/master/react).
> Feel free to modify it to suit your project's needs. 

### Table of Contents

* [Separate folder per UI component](#separate-folder-per-ui-component)
* [Prefer using functional components](#prefer-using-functional-components)
* [Use CSS Modules](#use-css-modules)
* [Use higher-order components](#use-higher-order-components)

### Separate folder per UI component

* Place each major UI component along with its resources in a separate folder<br>
  This will make it easier to find related resources for any particular UI
  element (CSS, images, unit tests, localization files etc.). Removing such
  components during refactorings should also be easy.
* Avoid having CSS, images and other resource files shared between multiple components.<br>
  This will make your code more maintainable, easy to refactor.
* Add `package.json` file into each component's folder.<br>
  This will allow to easily reference such components from other places in
  your code.<br>
  Use `import Nav from '../Navigation'` instead of `import Nav from '../Navigation/Navigation.js'`

```
/components/Navigation/icon.svg
/components/Navigation/Navigation.css
/components/Navigation/Navigation.js
/components/Navigation/Navigation.test.js
/components/Navigation/Navigation.ru-RU.css
/components/Navigation/package.json
```

```
// components/Navigation/package.json 
{
  "name:": "Navigation",
  "main": "./Navigation.js"
}
```

For more information google for [component-based UI development](https://google.com/search?q=component-based+ui+development).

### Prefer using functional components

* Prefer using stateless functional components whenever possible.<br>
  Components that don't use state are better to be written as simple pure functions.

```jsx
// Bad
class Navigation extends Component {
  static propTypes = { items: PropTypes.array.isRequired };
  render() {
    return <nav><ul>{this.props.items.map(x => <li>{x.text}</li>)}</ul></nav>;
  }
}

// Better
function Navigation({ items }) {
  return (
    <nav><ul>{items.map(x => <li>{x.text}</li>)}</ul></nav>;
  );
}
Navigation.propTypes = { items: PropTypes.array.isRequired };
```

### Use CSS Modules

* Use CSS Modules<br>
  This will allow using short CSS class names and at the same time avoid conflicts.
* Keep CSS simple and declarative. Avoid loops, mixins etc.
* Feel free to use variables in CSS via [precss](https://github.com/jonathantneal/precss) plugin for [PostCSS](https://github.com/postcss/postcss)
* Prefer CSS class selectors instead of element and `id` selectors (see [BEM](https://bem.info/))
* Avoid nested CSS selectors (see [BEM](https://bem.info/))
* When in doubt, use `.root { }` class name for the root elements of your components

```scss
// Navigation.scss
@import '../variables.scss';

.root {
  width: 300px;
}

.items {
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  list-style-type: none;
  text-align: center;
}

.item {
  display: inline-block;
  vertical-align: top;
}

.link {
  display: block;
  padding: 0 25px;
  outline: 0;
  border: 0;
  color: $default-color;
  text-decoration: none;
  line-height: 25px;
  transition: background-color .3s ease;

  &,
  .items:hover & {
    background: $default-bg-color;
  }

  .selected,
  .items:hover &:hover {
    background: $active-bg-color;
  }
}
```

```jsx
// Navigation.js
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';
import withStyles from 'isomorphic-style-loader/lib/withStyles';
import s from './Navigation.scss';

function Navigation() {
  return (
    <nav className={`${s.root} ${this.props.className}`}>
      <ul className={s.items}>
        <li className={`${s.item} ${s.selected}`}>
          <a className={s.link} href="/products">Products</a>
        </li>
        <li className={s.item}>
          <a className={s.link} href="/services">Services</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </nav>
  );
}

Navigation.propTypes = { className: PropTypes.string };

export default withStyles(Navigation, s);
```

### Use higher-order components

* Use higher-order components (HOC) to extend existing React components.<br>
  Here is an example:

```js
// withViewport.js
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import { canUseDOM } from 'fbjs/lib/ExecutionEnvironment';

function withViewport(ComposedComponent) {
  return class WithViewport extends Component {

    state = {
      viewport: canUseDOM ?
        {width: window.innerWidth, height: window.innerHeight} :
        {width: 1366, height: 768} // Default size for server-side rendering
    };

    componentDidMount() {
      window.addEventListener('resize', this.handleResize);
      window.addEventListener('orientationchange', this.handleResize);
    }

    componentWillUnmount() {
      window.removeEventListener('resize', this.handleResize);
      window.removeEventListener('orientationchange', this.handleResize);
    }

    handleResize = () => {
      let viewport = {width: window.innerWidth, height: window.innerHeight};
      if (this.state.viewport.width !== viewport.width ||
        this.state.viewport.height !== viewport.height) {
        this.setState({ viewport });
      }
    };

    render() {
      return <ComposedComponent {...this.props} viewport={this.state.viewport}/>;
    }

  };
};

export default withViewport;
```

```js
// MyComponent.js
import React from 'react';
import withViewport from './withViewport';

class MyComponent {
  render() {
    let { width, height } = this.props.viewport;
    return <div>{`Viewport: ${width}x${height}`}</div>;
  }
}

export default withViewport(MyComponent);
```

**[⬆ back to top](#table-of-contents)**
